README.md, before:

# Clawdbot Ansible Installer

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Lint](https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Ansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ansible-2.14+-blue.svg)](https://www.ansible.com/)
[![Debian/Ubuntu](https://img.shields.io/badge/OS-Debian%2FUbuntu-orange.svg)](https://www.debian.org/)

Automated, hardened installation of [Clawdbot](https://github.com/clawdbot/clawdbot) in Docker with firewall isolation and Tailscale VPN.

## Features

- 🔒 **Firewall-first**: UFW + Docker isolation (only SSH + Tailscale accessible)
- 🔐 **Tailscale VPN**: Secure remote access without exposing services
- 🐳 **Docker**: Isolated containers, localhost-only bindings
- 🛡️ **Defense in depth**: 4-layer security architecture
- 🚀 **One-command install**: Complete setup in minutes
- 🔧 **Systemd integration**: Auto-start on boot

## Quick Start

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/main/install.sh | bash
```

## What Gets Installed

- Tailscale (mesh VPN)
- UFW firewall (SSH + Tailscale ports only)
- Docker CE + Compose V2 (for sandboxes)
- Node.js 22.x + pnpm
- Clawdbot on host (not containerized)
- Systemd service (auto-start)

## Post-Install

```bash
# 1. Connect to Tailscale
sudo tailscale up

# 2. Configure Clawdbot
sudo nano /home/clawdbot/.clawdbot/config.yml

# 3. Login as clawdbot user
sudo su - clawdbot
clawdbot login

# 4. Check status
sudo systemctl status clawdbot
sudo journalctl -u clawdbot -f
```

## Security

- **Public ports**: SSH (22), Tailscale (41641/udp) only
- **Docker available**: For Clawdbot sandboxes (isolated execution)
- **Docker isolation**: Containers can't expose ports externally (DOCKER-USER chain)
- **Non-root**: Clawdbot runs as unprivileged user
- **Systemd hardening**: NoNewPrivileges, PrivateTmp

Verify: `nmap -p- YOUR_SERVER_IP` should show only port 22 open.

## Documentation

- [Security Architecture](docs/security.md)
- [Technical Details](docs/architecture.md)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md)
- [Agent Guidelines](AGENTS.md)

## Requirements

- Debian 11+ or Ubuntu 20.04+
- Root/sudo access
- Internet connection

## Manual Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y ansible git

# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible.git
cd clawdbot-ansible

# Install Ansible collections
ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml

# Run installation (automatically switches to clawdbot user after completion)
./run-playbook.sh

# Or run playbook directly (then manually run /tmp/clawdbot-setup.sh after)
# ansible-playbook playbook.yml --ask-become-pass
```

## License

MIT - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Support

- Clawdbot: https://github.com/clawdbot/clawdbot
- This installer: https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/issues

Commit message:

Remove automatic user switch, show clear instructions instead
Instead of trying to automatically switch users (which doesn't work reliably),
display clear instructions to the user:

'CHANGE USER NOW with: sudo -i -u clawdbot'

This is simpler, more reliable, and gives the user control.

Updates:
- run-playbook.sh: Show instructions instead of exec
- install.sh: Update comment
- README.md: Clarify post-install steps

README.md, after:

# Clawdbot Ansible Installer

[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)
[![Lint](https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/actions/workflows/lint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/actions/workflows/lint.yml)
[![Ansible](https://img.shields.io/badge/Ansible-2.14+-blue.svg)](https://www.ansible.com/)
[![Debian/Ubuntu](https://img.shields.io/badge/OS-Debian%2FUbuntu-orange.svg)](https://www.debian.org/)

Automated, hardened installation of [Clawdbot](https://github.com/clawdbot/clawdbot) in Docker with firewall isolation and Tailscale VPN.

## Features

- 🔒 **Firewall-first**: UFW + Docker isolation (only SSH + Tailscale accessible)
- 🔐 **Tailscale VPN**: Secure remote access without exposing services
- 🐳 **Docker**: Isolated containers, localhost-only bindings
- 🛡️ **Defense in depth**: 4-layer security architecture
- 🚀 **One-command install**: Complete setup in minutes
- 🔧 **Systemd integration**: Auto-start on boot

## Quick Start

```bash
curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/main/install.sh | bash
```

## What Gets Installed

- Tailscale (mesh VPN)
- UFW firewall (SSH + Tailscale ports only)
- Docker CE + Compose V2 (for sandboxes)
- Node.js 22.x + pnpm
- Clawdbot on host (not containerized)
- Systemd service (auto-start)

## Post-Install

After installation completes, switch to the clawdbot user:

```bash
sudo -i -u clawdbot
```

This will show you the next steps for:
- Configuring Clawdbot
- Logging into your messaging provider (WhatsApp/Telegram/Signal)
- Testing the gateway
- Connecting Tailscale

You can also manage the service:

```bash
# Check status
sudo systemctl status clawdbot

# View logs
sudo journalctl -u clawdbot -f
clawdbot login

# 4. Check status
sudo systemctl status clawdbot
sudo journalctl -u clawdbot -f
```

## Security

- **Public ports**: SSH (22), Tailscale (41641/udp) only
- **Docker available**: For Clawdbot sandboxes (isolated execution)
- **Docker isolation**: Containers can't expose ports externally (DOCKER-USER chain)
- **Non-root**: Clawdbot runs as unprivileged user
- **Systemd hardening**: NoNewPrivileges, PrivateTmp

Verify: `nmap -p- YOUR_SERVER_IP` should show only port 22 open.

## Documentation

- [Security Architecture](docs/security.md)
- [Technical Details](docs/architecture.md)
- [Troubleshooting](docs/troubleshooting.md)
- [Agent Guidelines](AGENTS.md)

## Requirements

- Debian 11+ or Ubuntu 20.04+
- Root/sudo access
- Internet connection

## Manual Installation

```bash
# Install dependencies
sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y ansible git

# Clone repository
git clone https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible.git
cd clawdbot-ansible

# Install Ansible collections
ansible-galaxy collection install -r requirements.yml

# Run installation (automatically switches to clawdbot user after completion)
./run-playbook.sh

# Or run playbook directly (then manually run /tmp/clawdbot-setup.sh after)
# ansible-playbook playbook.yml --ask-become-pass
```

## License

MIT - see [LICENSE](LICENSE)

## Support

- Clawdbot: https://github.com/clawdbot/clawdbot
- This installer: https://github.com/pasogott/clawdbot-ansible/issues
